post_authors::abdo
post_titles::The 40 Best High Protein Foods
post_bodies::Whether you're paleo, vegan, or counting macros, everybody needs protein. Build muscle, control hunger, and banish taste-bud boredom with the definitive list of high-protein foods for all diets.

The 40 Best High Protein Foods
Matthew Kadey, MS, RD
Matthew Kadey, MS, RD
July 12, 2019 •  10 min read
Protein builds your body. It creates muscle. It controls hunger. It's a win-win! Whether your goal is weight loss or muscle building, eating enough protein is key, but so is variety, since each kind has its own amino acid profile. Go beyond chicken and protein powder with these great high-protein foods.

To learn exactly how much protein you should aim for, plug your stats into the protein calculator. Then, choose foods from this list that add up to give you the grams you need to hit your weight loss or muscle growth goals.

Real Fitness: The Bodybuilding.com Magazine


1. Eggs
Protein in an egg:6 g per 1 large egg

Eggs are one of the most perfect high-protein foods at the supermarket: cheap, versatile, low-carb, and packed with branched-chain amino acids. Look for eggs fortified with extra omega-3 fatty acids to give your breakfast scramble an extra nutrient boost.

Eggs
Hard-boiled eggs are one of the most portable protein foods. You can also make a shake with dried egg protein powder.

High Protein Dairy
2. Greek Yogurt
Protein in Greek yogurt: 23 g per 8-oz. serving

Greek yogurt has become such a popular choice because it has twice as much protein as other types of yogurt. It's also rich in bone-building calcium and probiotic bacteria, which is great for gut health. Look for plain varieties to keep calories—and your weight—in check.

3. Cottage Cheese
Protein in cottage cheese: 14 g per 1/2-cup serving

Make cottage cheese your go-to food for a healthy late-night snack. It's high in casein, a slow-digesting dairy protein. Slow-digesting protein feeds your muscles all night so they don't catabolize, and it keeps you from waking up starving at 3 a.m.

4. Swiss Cheese
Protein in Swiss cheese: 8 g per 1-oz. serving

Gram for gram, Swiss cheese provides more protein than other varieties commonly available in the supermarket, making it a muscle-friendly option for your sandwiches and burgers. And, like yogurt, it's also high in calcium. If you're concerned about the calorie density of full-fat Swiss, low-fat versions have a protein-to-fat ratio of around 8-to-1, while still providing good flavor.

5. 2-Percent Milk
Protein in 2-percent milk: 8 g per 1-cup serving

You could chug watery, flavorless skim milk, or you could enjoy the richer taste of 2 percent while getting a little extra fat to help you absorb the milk's vitamin D and get you closer to your macro targets.

cottage cheese
Organic milk has the highest nutrient content, including protein and omega-3s.[1] Use it in place of water for a revved-up protein shake.

6. Whey Or Casein Protein Powder
Protein in whey or casein powder: 24 g per scoop, on average

Whey protein powder is clean, fast-digesting, and most of its calories come from protein. It's also convenient—just mix it with water in a shaker bottle. Use it whenever you need quick, no-prep protein, like after a workout, for an on-the-go breakfast, or alongside a low-protein meal.

If you need something that'll help you hide from hunger a little longer, go for slow-digesting casein powder. It won't hit your muscles as fast, but it can keep you full for hours and can help you lose fat without losing muscle mass.

You can also use either type of powder to make high-protein pancakes. They make a great pre-or post-workout snack if you need a break from shakes. If you're sensitive to artificial sweeteners, look for an unsweetened powder or one sweetened with stevia.

7. Smoothies
Protein in smoothies: 16 g per 1-cup serving, on average

Up your protein-shake game by blending protein powder into a smoothie with fruit for a higher vitamin content. You can also buy premade smoothie drinks, but make sure they have a substantial dose of protein (at least 20 grams for a 2-cup bottle) and not just fruit, too much of which can send you into sugar overload. To make a plant-based smoothie, substitute a blend of rice protein and pea protein

8. Frozen Greek Yogurt
Protein in frozen Greek yogurt: 6 g per 1/2-cup serving

This sweet treat is frosty and creamy like ice cream, but contains about twice as much protein. Compare brands and look for those with the lowest sugar levels (or make it yourself). Some brands actually list fruit before sugar in the ingredient list, which is a plus.

High Protein Seafood
9. Yellowfin Tuna
Protein in yellowfin tuna: 25 g per 3-oz. serving


authors::no_need
comments::no_need